Chapter 1:
Mario finds himself in Grassy Plains and sees Gloomtail flying by. 
Mario then meets Vivian and find out that Gloomtail has been acting mean lately. Mario also finds out 
Vivian was Gloomtail's childhood best friend.  
Gloomtail was upset about Mario defeating the Shadow Queen, aka his mom. 
Mario goes underground and finds Gloomtail's other friend, Dark Goomba.  
Dark Goomba hates Mario and battles him. He gets defeated.
Mario and Vivian find Gloomtail and defeat him. 

Chapter 2:
Mario and Vivian arrives in Savannah Hights and find the place has turned corrupted.
Mario meets Goombella, and they try to find out who turned the place corrupted. 
Goombella and Mario find Dark Goomba and ask if Gloomtail was behind the place turning corrupted.
Dark Goomba battles Mario, and loses again. 
Mario and Goombella finds Corrupted Smorg, who was behind the place turning corrupted.   
They beat Corrupted Smorg. 

Chapter 3:
Mario and Goombella are in some snowy tundra then Hooktail tries to kill them, following Gloomtail's orders.  
Doopliss saves them and Mario and Goombella thank him and Doopliss finds out all the relationships (Vivian/Gloomtail = childhood best friend)   
(Vivian/Beldam = sisters) (The Shadow Queen/Gloomtail = mother and son) (The Shadow Queen/Beldam = best friends).  
Doopliss runs away from to much information....        
Mario gets impulsive and presses a red button and gets trapped in a cage aka Hooktail's trap. 
Mario and Goombella escape then they climb a snowy mountain and meet Hooktail at the top. 
Mario beats Hooktail in battle.     

Chapter 4:
Mario and his friends decide to take a trip to Yoshi's Island 
In Yoshi's Island Mario meets his old friend Jenny and they try to figure out Gloomtail's plan
Jenny has an older brother who works in I.T. with Gloomtail's older sister Bonetail. 
Jenny's older brother tells Mario what he overheard 
he overheard Bonetail saying, Gloomtail plans to revive the Shadow Queen with the Crystal Stars
Mario sets out to find the Crystal Stars and two of them are located on Yoshi's Island
Mario and Jenny find Bonetail and Jenny's brother arguing
Bonetail threatens to kill Jenny's older brother with the Crystal Stars 
Mario stops Bonetail, battles her and wins. 
Mario gets two Crystal Stars    

Chapter 5: in progress

Chapter 6: in progress

Chapter 7: in progress

Chapter 8: in progress  
